 According to media reports, the girl's mother said a teacher had called her "dirty" for soiling her uniform and ordered her to leave the class. In Kenya, many girls cannot afford sanitary products such as pads and tampons and – despite the passage of a law in 2017 to provide free sanitary towels for schoolgirls – the girl had nothing to protect her clothes. She came home and told her mother about the incident but when the mother went to fetch water, she took her own life. Plan International is devastated to learn of the tragic and completely avoidable suicide of this young girl who was allegedly bullied and shamed by a teacher who should have supported her in her moment of need. The incident clearly highlights how poverty should never be a barrier to menstrual heath and dignity – which is critical to ensuring that all girls are able to live their lives and attend school without shame or insult. It also emphasises the importance of awareness-raising in schools to tackle the harmful stigma of menstruation – and the importance of training for teachers to ensure that they themselves understand menstruation and can promote positive conversations and behaviours about it. Access to sanitary towels is a big challenge for girls in Kenya, with UNESCO estimating that around half of all school-age girls do not have access to sanitary pads. There are many instances where girls drop out of school once they start their periods because they feel ashamed. Staying at home and being out of education leaves them even more vulnerable to violations of their rights such as child marriage. Plan International understands that a parliamentary committee is currently investigating why the government’s pledge in 2017 to provide free sanitary towels for school girls is yet to be rolled out across all schools. We call on the government to ensure robust and immediate implementation of the pledge to ensure all girls, including those in marginalised and remote communities, can access free sanitary pads. We also urge the government to ensure that comprehensive sexuality education – including in-depth teaching designed to tackle period shame – is delivered in specially-created safe spaces in all schools nationally to improve girls’ attendance and performance at school, break down taboos and misconceptions around menstruation and raise girls’ self-esteem. Tragically, we can never turn the clock back on what has happened to this young girl. But we have a duty to do everything in our power to ensure it never happens again. learn more about menstruation We are committed to addressing the stigmas surrounding menstruation and supporting girls to manage their periods so they can feel confident and focus on their education. Girls have the potential to transform societies if they get access to family planning services and information, blogs youth campaigner Caren as experts meet at the International Conference on Family Planning.