Climate change is the most significant intergenerational equity issue of our time. Children and future generations are bearing, or will come to bear, the brunt of its impact on a polluted, degraded planet. The social impacts of climate change are not distributed equally. Instead, inequality – whether economic, social, or gender-based – increases vulnerability. Climate change makes gender inequality worse The effects of climate change also make gender inequality worse. This means women face greater risks to their lives, health and livelihoods than men. Children too are vulnerable and are at higher risk than adults of illness, injury and the psycho-social trauma associated with climate-related issues. When these vulnerabilities intersect, it is girls and young women, especially those from marginalised communities in the least developed countries, who will suffer the most. Governments must protect girls' rights As international policy makers and national governments struggle to combat the climate crisis, the human rights of those most at risk and largely unrepresented, are easily ignored. In order to understand what is being done to alleviate the burden of the climate crisis on girls and young women, and to clarify what could be done, this research focuses on the extent to which national climate strategies protect and advance girls' rights. The full research report has been developed by Plan International alongside The Brookings Institution* and UNICEF. The advocacy brief has been produced by Plan International and includes calls-to-action for governments and wider society to ensure girls' rights are included in climate action. *Plan International is not responsible for content on external websites. One of the most devastating consequences of climate change will be a reversal of progress on girls’ rights and gender equality. These stories show how the inequalities experienced by marginalised girls and young women are amplified by the impacts of climate change. Young activists are speaking out about the urgency of reducing emissions. We must support them and put pressure on parties at COP24 to commit to tackling climate change, blogs Jess Cooke.